# 🦀 Crab Markup Language

**CRML** is a simple markup language which compiles all given files into a Rust module which fits right into your crate source.

The generated `crml/mod.rs` file exports functions which build the contents of your given templates as HTML.

## Configuration

Your project must contain a `crml.json` file in order to tell the CLI how to build your templates. The repository contains an example [`crml.json`](https://github.com/trisuaso/crml/blob/master/crml.json) file which links to [`examples/simple`](https://github.com/trisuaso/crml/blob/master/examples/simple) to build templates.

You can run this example for yourself with the following commands:

```bash
just test
```

The only key you need to provide in this file is the directory where your templates are stored.

```json
{
    "root_dir": "./templates"
}
```

## Usage

A very simple usage example is shown in the [example](https://github.com/trisuaso/crml/blob/master/examples/simple).

### Base template

You can add "slots" to templates and allow them to act as a base for other templates.

Imagine a template like this:

```haml
@<!DOCTYPE html>
%html
    %head
        %title'Document Title
    %-head

    %body
        %slot[name="body_content"]
    %-body
%-html
```

This template creates an HTML element in its `body` which looks like this:

```html
<slot name="body_content"/>
```

We can then say that we're going to render into **this specific slot** from **this specific file** by referencing its "address" in other files.

```haml
%s:first.body_content
// everything here (for the rest of the file) will be put into the
// "body_content" slot element of the "first" template
```

## Debug

You can create a `crml_dbg` directory in your project root to debug the Rust generated by the `template` macro. This directory will have the macro output written to it every time the macro is run.

## Attribution

CRML is licensed under the MIT license. You can view the license [here](https://github.com/trisuaso/crml/blob/master/LICENSE).
